VMWare Otel App Documentation (#4336)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/containers-orchestration/opentelemetry/vmware-opentelemetry.md

---

> id: vmware-opentelemetry

Reviewer: You need to add this article to the left navigation menu. For directions, see "[Navigation menus](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/contributing/style-guide/#navigation-menus)" in our style guid.

title: VMWare - OpenTelemetry Collector
sidebar_label: VMWare - OTel Collector
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry app for VMWare.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/vmware.png')} alt="VMware dashboards" width="50" />

> The VMware - OpenTelemetry app uses metrics from the VMware cloud computing virtualisation platform to enable monitoring of vCenter, datacenter, resource pool, cluster, ESXi hosts and individual virtual machines metrics with real-time date displayed in predefined dashboards.
> 
> The dashboards provide insight into key metrics such as CPU, memory, disk utilization at different infrastructure level like vm, host, datacenter, resource pool and clusters. This enables you to determine capacity constraints and troubleshoot operational issues related to over-provisioning, changes to configuration, and VM movement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VMware - OpenTelemetry app uses metrics from the VMware cloud computing virtualization platform to enable monitoring of vCenter, datacenter, resource pool, cluster, ESXi hosts, and individual virtual machine metrics with real-time data displayed in predefined dashboards.

The dashboards provide insight into key metrics such as CPU, memory, disk utilization at different infrastructure levels like VM, host, datacenter, resource pool, and clusters. This enables you to determine capacity constraints and troubleshoot operational issues related to over-provisioning, changes to configuration, and VM movement.
```

VMWare metrics are collected through the [vCenter Receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/vcenterreceiver) of OpenTelemetry.

See the [vSphere product page](https://www.vmware.com/products/vsphere.html) for more information on VMware hybrid cloud.

> <img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/VMWare-OpenTelemetry/VMWare-Schematics.png' alt="Schematics" />

Reviewer: This image does not load in my local build. When I go to the URL, it says "AccessDenied".

Reviewer 2: Uploaded to S3 and made public. No changes required in the PR.

## Prerequisites
VMWare metrics are collected through the [vCenter Receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/vcenterreceiver) of OpenTelemetry.

This receiver has been built to support ESXi and vCenter versions:

- 8
- 7.0

> A “Read Only” user assigned to a vSphere with permissions to the vCenter server, cluster and all subsequent resources being monitored must be specified in order for the receiver to retrieve information about them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A “Read Only” user assigned to a vSphere with permissions to the vCenter server, cluster, and all subsequent resources being monitored must be specified in order for the receiver to retrieve information about them.
```

## Collection configuration and app installation

import ConfigAppInstall from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/config-app-install.md';

<ConfigAppInstall/>

### Step 1: Set up Collector

import SetupColl from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/set-up-collector.md';

<SetupColl/>

> <img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/VMWare-OpenTelemetry/VMWare-Collector.png' style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} alt="Collector" />

Reviewer: This image does not load in my local build. When I go to the URL, it says "AccessDenied".

Reviewer 2: Uploaded to S3 and made public. No changes required in the PR.

### Step 2: Configure integration

> In this step, we will be configuring the yaml file required for VMWare Collection. Here are the list of parameters which are required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we will be configuring the YAML file required for VMWare Collection. Here isthe list of parameters which are required:
```

> - **Endpoint** to the vCenter Server or ESXi host that has the sdk path enabled. This is a required parameter. The expected format is `<protocol>://<hostname>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Endpoint** to the vCenter Server or ESXi host that has the SDK path enabled. This is a required parameter. The expected format is `<protocol>://<hostname>`.
```

> - **Endpoint** to the vCenter Server or ESXi host that has the sdk path enabled. This is a required parameter. The expected format is `<protocol>://<hostname>`
> 
> i.e: `https://vcsa.hostname.localnet`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Endpoint** to the vCenter Server or ESXi host that has the SDK path enabled. This is a required parameter. The expected format is `<protocol>://<hostname>`. For example, `https://vcsa.hostname.localnet`.
```

> - **Username** of User which has access to vcenter server
> - **Password** of User which has access to vcenter server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Username** of User which has access to vCenter server
- **Password** of User which has access to vCenter server
```

- **collection_interval** this receiver collects metrics on an interval. If the vCenter is fairly large, this value may need to be increased. Valid time units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h` 

> You can add any custom fields which you want to tag along with the data ingested in sumo. Click on the **Download YAML File** button to get the yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add any custom fields which you want to tag along with the data ingested in Sumo Logic. Click on the **Download YAML File** button to get the YAML file.
```

> In this step, we will be configuring the yaml file required for VMWare Collection. Here are the list of parameters which are required:
> 
> - **Endpoint** to the vCenter Server or ESXi host that has the sdk path enabled. This is a required parameter. The expected format is `<protocol>://<hostname>`
> 
> i.e: `https://vcsa.hostname.localnet`
> - **Username** of User which has access to vcenter server
> - **Password** of User which has access to vcenter server
> - **collection_interval** this receiver collects metrics on an interval. If the vCenter is fairly large, this value may need to be increased. Valid time units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h` 
> 
> You can add any custom fields which you want to tag along with the data ingested in sumo. Click on the **Download YAML File** button to get the yaml file.
> 
> For Linux platform, click **Download Environment Variables File** to get the file with the password which is supposed to be set as environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we will be configuring the YAML file required for VMWare Collection. Here is the list of parameters which are required:

- **Endpoint** to the vCenter Server or ESXi host that has the SDK path enabled. This is a required parameter. The expected format is `<protocol>://<hostname>` For example, `https://vcsa.hostname.localnet`.
- **Username** of User which has access to vCenter server
- **Password** of User which has access to vCenter server
- **collection_interval** this receiver collects metrics on an interval. If the vCenter is fairly large, this value may need to be increased. Valid time units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h` 

You can add any custom fields which you want to tag along with the data ingested in sumo. Click on the **Download YAML File** button to get the YAML file.

For the Linux platform, click **Download Environment Variables File** to get the file with the password which is supposed to be set as environment variable.
```

> <img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/VMWare-OpenTelemetry/VMWare-YAML.png' style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} alt="YAML" />

Reviewer: This image does not load in my local build. When I go to the URL, it says "AccessDenied".

Reviewer 2: Uploaded to S3 and made public. No changes required in the PR.

### Step 3: Send logs to Sumo Logic

import LogsIntro from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/send-logs-intro.md';

<LogsIntro/>

<Tabs
  className="unique-tabs"
  defaultValue="Linux"
  values={[
    {label: 'Linux', value: 'Linux'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'Windows'},
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'macOS'},
    {label: 'Chef', value: 'Chef'},
    {label: 'Ansible', value: 'Ansible'},
    {label: 'Puppet', value: 'Puppet'},
  ]}>

<TabItem value="Linux">

1. Copy the yaml file to `/etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/` folder in the VMWare instance which has access to vCenter or the vCenter itself.
2. Restart the collector using:
  ```sh
  sudo systemctl restart otelcol-sumo
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Windows">

> 1. Copy the yaml file to `C:\ProgramData\Sumo Logic\OpenTelemetry Collector\config\conf.d` folder in the VMWare instance which has access to vCenter or the vCenter itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy the YAML file to `C:\ProgramData\Sumo Logic\OpenTelemetry Collector\config\conf.d` folder in the VMWare instance which has access to vCenter or the vCenter itself.
```

2. Restart the collector using:
  ```sh
  Restart-Service -Name OtelcolSumo
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macOS">

> 1. Copy the yaml file to /etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/ folder in the VMWare instance which has access to vCenter or the vCenter itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy the YAML file to /etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/ folder in the VMWare instance which has access to vCenter or the vCenter itself.
```

## Sample queries

### Metrics query

This sample Query is from the **VMWare - Overview** > **Top 25 ESXi Hosts - CPU Utilization** panel.

```sql title="Metric query"
sumo.datasource=vmware  metric=vcenter.host.cpu.utilization vcenter.datacenter.name=* vcenter.cluster.name=* vcenter.host.name=* | topk(25,avg)
```

## Sample metrics

### Metric message

```json title="Metric message"
{
  "queryId": "A",
  "_source": "WIN-U8TUICHO2JM",
  "_metricId": "-nHlUFTEN-e35PT8M0bW4Q",
  "_sourceName": "vmware",
  "host.group": "sumovmware",
  "os.type": "windows",
  "sumo.datasource": "vmware",
  "_sourceCategory": "otel/vmware",
  "deployment.environment": "sumovmware",
  "_contentType": "OpenTelemetry",
  "host.name": "WIN-U8TUICHO2JM",
  "metric": "vcenter.host.cpu.utilization",
  "_collectorId": "00005AF310C86B33",
  "vcenter.datacenter.name": "Production",
  "_sourceId": "0000000000000000",
  "unit": "%",
  "vcenter.cluster.name": "Prod Cluster",
  "_sourceHost": "WIN-U8TUICHO2JM",
  "_collector": "WIN-U8TUICHO2JM",
  "vcenter.host.name": "esx1.esxlab.com",
  "max": 45.76,
  "min": 0,
  "avg": 5.65,
  "sum": 1621.41,
  "latest": 0,
  "count": 287
}
```

## Viewing VMWare dashboards

> ### VMWare - Overview

Reviewer: You should add a short description for each dashboard. See the [Kafka](http://localhost:3000/docs/integrations/containers-orchestration/opentelemetry/kafka-opentelemetry/#viewing-kafka-dashboards) and [ActiveMQ](http://localhost:3000/docs/integrations/containers-orchestration/opentelemetry/activemq-opentelemetry/#viewing-the-activemq-dashboards) articles for examples.

Reviewer 2: Done

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/Docker-Overview-Otel.png')} alt="VMWare-Overview"/>

- **Number of ESXi Hosts in Cluster**. The total number of ESXi hosts in the cluster.
- **Number of VMs in Cluster**. The total number of VMs in the cluster.
- **Available Cluster Memory**. Percentage of memory available in the cluster.

> - **Available Cluster CPU**. Percentage of cpu available in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Available Cluster CPU**. Percentage of CPU available in the cluster.
```

- **Datastore Disk Utilization**. The disk utilization of the datastore.
- **VM Disk Usage**. The disk usage of VM.

> - **Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts cpu utilization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU utilization.
```

- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Memory Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts memory utilization.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Usage**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts usage.

> - **Top 25 VMs CPU Utilization**. Top 25 VMs cpu utilization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Top 25 VMs CPU Utilization**. Top 25 VMs CPU utilization.
```

- **Top 25 VMs Network Usage**. Top 25 VMs network usage.
- **Top 25 VMs Memory Ballooning**. Top 25 VMs memory ballooning.

### VMWare - Clusters

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/Docker-CPU-Usage-Otel.png')} alt="VMWare-Clusters"/>

- **Number of ESXi Hosts in Cluster**. The total number of ESXi hosts in the cluster.
- **Number of VMs in Cluster**. The total number of VMs in the cluster.
- **Available Cluster CPU**. Percentage of CPU available in the cluster.
- **Available Cluster Memory**. Percentage of Memory available in the cluster.

### VMWare - Resource Pools

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/Docker-Memory-Usage-Otel.png')} alt="VMWare-Resource-Pools"/>

- **Cluster CPU Usage**. CPU usage of the resource pool.
- **Cluster Memory Usage**. Memory usage of the resource pool.
- **Shares of CPU**. Shares of CPU in the resource pool.
- **Shares of Memory**. Shares of Memory in the resource pool.

### VMWare - Host Overview/ Details

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/Docker-Network-Usage-Otel.png')} alt="VMWare-Host-Overview-Details"/>

> - **Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts cpu utilization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU utilization.
```

- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Memory Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts memory utilization.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Usage**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts usage.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Disk Read/ Write Latency**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts disk read/ write latency.

> - **Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Usage**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts cpu usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Usage**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU usage.
```

- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Disk Read/ Write Rate**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts disk read/ write rate.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Throughput**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts network throughput.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Packet Rate**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts network transmitted/ received packet rate.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Packet Error Rate**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts network transmitted/ received packet error rate.

### VMWare - VM Overview/ Details

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/Docker-Network-Usage-Otel.png')} alt="VMWare-VM-Overview-Details"/>

- **Top 25 VMs CPU Utilization**. Top 25 VMs cpu utilization.
- **Top 25 VMs Memory Utilization**. Top 25 VMs memory utilization.
- **Top 25 VMs Disk Utilization**. Top 25 VMs disk utilization.
- **Top 25 VMs Network Usage**. Top 25 VMs network usage.
- **Top 25 VMs Disk Usage**. Top 25 VMs disk usage.

> - **Top 25 VMs CPU Usage**. Top 25 VMs cpu usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Top 25 VMs CPU Usage**. Top 25 VMs CPU usage.
```

- **Top 25 VMs Memory Usage**. Top 25 VMs memory usage.
- **Top 25 VMs Memory Ballooning**. Top 25 VMs memory ballooning.

> - **Top 25 VMs Disk Read/ Write Latency**. Top 25 VMs disk read/ write latency.
> - **Top 25 VMs Disk Read/ Write Rate**. Top 25 VMs disk read/ write rate.
> - **Top 25 VMs Network Throughput**. Top 25 VMs network throughput.
> - **Top 25 VMs Network Packet Rate**. Top 25 VMs network transmitted/ received packet rate.
> - **Top 25 VMs Network Packet Drop Rate**. Top 25 VMs network transmitted/ received packet drop rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Top 25 VMs Disk Read/ Write Latency**. Top 25 VMs disk read/write latency.
- **Top 25 VMs Disk Read/ Write Rate**. Top 25 VMs disk read/write rate.
- **Top 25 VMs Network Throughput**. Top 25 VMs network throughput.
- **Top 25 VMs Network Packet Rate**. Top 25 VMs network transmitted/received packet rate.
- **Top 25 VMs Network Packet Drop Rate**. Top 25 VMs network transmitted/received packet drop rate.
```

---
id: vmware-opentelemetry
title: VMWare - OpenTelemetry Collector
sidebar_label: VMWare - OTel Collector
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry app for VMWare.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/rabbitmq.png')} alt="icon" width="45"/> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/otel-color.svg')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/>

> The VMware app uses unified metrics from the VMware cloud computing virtualization platform to enable monitoring of vCenter, ESXi hosts and individual virtual machines metrics with real-time date displayed in predefined dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The VMware - OpenTelemetry app uses metrics from the VMware cloud computing virtualisation platform to enable monitoring of vCenter, datacenter, resource pool, cluster, ESXi hosts and individual virtual machines metrics with real-time date displayed in predefined dashboards.
```

> The dashboards provide insight into key metrics such as VM and hosts CPU, memory, disk utilization. This enables you to determine capacity constraints and troubleshoot operational issues related to over-provisioning, changes to configuration, and VM movement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The dashboards provide insight into key metrics such as CPU, memory, disk utilization at different infrastructure level like vm, host, datacenter, resource pool and clusters. This enables you to determine capacity constraints and troubleshoot operational issues related to over-provisioning, changes to configuration, and VM movement.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we mention the receiver which we use for collecting data for this app (vcenter in this case) and provide a link to its doc page ?

See the [vSphere product page](https://www.vmware.com/products/vsphere.html) for more information on VMware hybrid cloud.

> <img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/RabbitMq-OpenTelemetry/RabbitMQ-Schematics.png' alt="Schematics" />

Reviewer 2: Why is there rabbitmq schematic here ?

> ## Fields creation in Sumo Logic for RabbitMQ

Reviewer 2: RabbitMQ ?

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/VMWare-OpenTelemetry/VMWare-Schematics.png' alt="Schematics" />

## Prerequisites
VMWare metrics are collected through the [vCenter Receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/vcenterreceiver) of OpenTelemetry.

This receiver has been built to support ESXi and vCenter versions:

- 8.0
- 7.0

A “Read Only” user assigned to a vSphere with permissions to the vCenter server, cluster, and all subsequent resources being monitored must be specified in order for the receiver to retrieve information about them.

## Collection configuration and app installation

import ConfigAppInstall from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/config-app-install.md';

<ConfigAppInstall/>

### Step 1: Set up Collector

import SetupColl from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/set-up-collector.md';

<SetupColl/>

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/VMWare-OpenTelemetry/VMWare-Collector.png' style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} alt="Collector" />

### Step 2: Configure integration

> In this step, we will be configuring the YAML file required for VMWare Collection. Here is the list of parameters which are required:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this step, we will configure the YAML file required for VMWare Collection. Here is a list of required parameters:
```

> - **Endpoint** to the vCenter Server or ESXi host that has the SDK path enabled. This is a required parameter. The expected format is `<protocol>://<hostname>`. For example, `https://vcsa.hostname.localnet`.
> - **Username** of User which has access to vCenter server
> - **Password** of User which has access to vCenter server
> - **collection_interval** this receiver collects metrics on an interval. If the vCenter is fairly large, this value may need to be increased. Valid time units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h` 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Endpoint** to the vCenter Server or ESXi host that has the SDK path enabled. This is a required parameter. The expected format is `<protocol>://<hostname>`. For example, `https://vcsa.hostname.localnet`.
- **Username** of User which has access to vCenter server.
- **Password** of User which has access to vCenter server.
- **collection_interval** this receiver collects metrics on an interval. If the vCenter is fairly large, this value may need to be increased. Valid time units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h`.
```

You can add any custom fields which you want to tag along with the data ingested in Sumo Logic. Click on the **Download YAML File** button to get the YAML file.

For the Linux platform, click **Download Environment Variables File** to get the file with the password which is supposed to be set as environment variable.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/VMWare-OpenTelemetry/VMWare-YAML.png' style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} alt="YAML" />

### Step 3: Send logs to Sumo Logic

import LogsIntro from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/send-logs-intro.md';

<LogsIntro/>

<Tabs
  className="unique-tabs"
  defaultValue="Linux"
  values={[
    {label: 'Linux', value: 'Linux'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'Windows'},
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'macOS'},
    {label: 'Chef', value: 'Chef'},
    {label: 'Ansible', value: 'Ansible'},
    {label: 'Puppet', value: 'Puppet'},
  ]}>

<TabItem value="Linux">

> 1. Copy the YAML file to `/etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/` folder in the VMWare instance which has access to vCenter or the vCenter itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Copy the YAML file to the `/etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/` folder on the VMware instance that has access to vCenter or to vCenter itself.
```

2. Restart the collector using:
   ```sh
   sudo systemctl restart otelcol-sumo
   ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Windows">

1. Copy the YAML file to `C:\ProgramData\Sumo Logic\OpenTelemetry Collector\config\conf.d` folder in the VMWare instance which has access to vCenter or the vCenter itself.
2. Restart the collector using:
   ```sh
   Restart-Service -Name OtelcolSumo
   ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macOS">

> 1. Copy the YAML file to /etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/ folder in the VMWare instance which has access to vCenter or the vCenter itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Copy the YAML file to `/etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/` folder on the VMware instance that has access to vCenter or to vCenter itself.
```

> 2. Restart the otelcol-sumo process using the below command 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Restart the otelcol-sumo process using the below command:
```

   ```sh
   otelcol-sumo --config /etc/otelcol-sumo/sumologic.yaml --config "glob:/etc/otelcol-sumo/conf.d/*.yaml" 
   ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Chef">

import ChefNoEnv from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/chef-without-env.md';

<ChefNoEnv/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Ansible">

import AnsibleNoEnv from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/ansible-without-env.md';

<AnsibleNoEnv/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Puppet">

import PuppetNoEnv from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/puppet-without-env.md';

<PuppetNoEnv/>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

import LogsOutro from '../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/send-logs-outro.md';

<LogsOutro/>

## Sample queries

### Metrics query

> This sample Query is from the **VMWare - Overview** > **Top 25 ESXi Hosts - CPU Utilization** panel.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This sample query is from the **VMWare - Overview** > **Top 25 ESXi Hosts - CPU Utilization** panel.
```

- **VM Disk Usage**. The disk usage of VM.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU utilization.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Memory Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts memory utilization.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Usage**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts usage.
- **Top 25 VMs CPU Utilization**. Top 25 VMs CPU utilization.
- **Top 25 VMs Memory Utilization**. Top 25 VMs memory utilization.
- **Top 25 VMs Network Usage**. Top 25 VMs network usage.
- **Top 25 VMs Memory Ballooning**. Top 25 VMs memory ballooning.

### VMWare - Clusters

The **VMWare - Clusters** dashboard provides at-a-glance analysis of VMWare cluster metrics like Hosts count, VM count, available CPU, and Memory percentage.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/VMWare-OpenTelemetry/VMware-Clusters.png' alt="VMWare-Clusters"/>

- **Number of ESXi Hosts in Cluster**. The total number of ESXi hosts in the cluster.
- **Number of VMs in Cluster**. The total number of VMs in the cluster.
- **Available Cluster CPU**. Percentage of CPU available in the cluster.
- **Available Cluster Memory**. Percentage of Memory available in the cluster.

### VMWare - Resource Pools

> The **VMWare - Resource Pools** dashboard provides at-a-glance analysis of Resource Pool metrics like Memory Usage, CPU Usage, Shares of CPU, and Memory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **VMWare - Resource Pools** dashboard provides an at-a-glance analysis of Resource Pool metrics like Memory Usage, CPU Usage, Shares of CPU, and Memory.
```

- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Utilization.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Memory Utilization**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts Memory Utilization.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Usage**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Usage.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Disk Read/ Write Latency**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts Disk read/ write latency.

### VMWare - Host Details

The **VMWare - Host Details** dashboard provides detailed analysis of ESXi Hosts metrics like CPU Usage, Memory Usage, Disk Read/ Write Rate, Network Usage, Network Packet Rate, and Network Packet Error Rate.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/VMWare-OpenTelemetry/VMware-Host-Details.png' alt="VMWare-Host-Overview-Details"/>

- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU Usage**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts CPU usage.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Disk Read/ Write Rate**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts Disk read/ write rate.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Throughput**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network throughput.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Packet Rate**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network transmitted/ received packet rate.
- **Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network Packet Error Rate**. Top 25 ESXi Hosts Network transmitted/ received packet error rate.

### VMWare - VM Overview

> The **VMWare - VM Overview** dashboard provides at-a-glance analysis of VM metrics like CPU Utilisation, Memory Utilization, Disk Utilization, Network Usage, and Disk Usage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **VMWare - VM Overview** dashboard provides an at-a-glance analysis of VM metrics like CPU Utilization, Memory Utilization, Disk Utilization, Network Usage, and Disk Usage.
```

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/VMWare-OpenTelemetry/VMware-VM-Overview.png' alt="VMWare-VM-Overview-Details"/>

- **Top 25 VMs CPU Utilization**. Top 25 VMs CPU utilization.
- **Top 25 VMs Memory Utilization**. Top 25 VMs Memory utilization.
- **Top 25 VMs Disk Utilization**. Top 25 VMs Disk utilization.
- **Top 25 VMs Network Usage**. Top 25 VMs Network usage.
- **Top 25 VMs Disk Usage**. Top 25 VMs Disk usage.
- **Top 25 VMs Memory Ballooning**. Top 25 VMs Memory Ballooning.

### VMWare - VM Details

> The **VMWare - VM Details** dashboard provides detailed analysis of VM metrics like CPU Usage, Memory Usage, Read/Write Latency, Network Packet Rate, and Memory Swapped.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **VMWare - VM Details** dashboard provides a detailed analysis of VM metrics like CPU Usage, Memory Usage, Read/Write Latency, Network Packet Rate, and Memory Swapped.
```
